[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
I'm Reece Jones, and welcome
to module 2, Extracting
Data from Your Journal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As you may have already guessed,
we don't just log our dreams
for the fun of it.
Sure.
It can be a rewarding
process in and of itself,
but there's more
to it than that.
There's important data
buried within these entries.
Data that can not only help you
glean interesting information
about your own psyche, but
also help you nail down
your dream signs, which
are pivotal to creating
regular lucidity further
on down the line.
This data isn't always
easy to see at first,
but once you have
the eyes for it,
it becomes glaring and obvious.
And so in this module,
I'll be showing you
how to locate the data and
extract what you need from it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
First and foremost,
know that extraction
is a two-tiered process.
It takes place during
your initial logging,
and then again, when
you read the logs
back a few weeks or
months down the line.
Both times are critical
in their own right.
So let's first look at
the initial logging.
Imagine you've just woken up.
Remember what we talked
about in the first module.
Don't roll over and start
checking your notifications
on your phone or tablet.
Instead, stay
still, stay mindful,
gather your recollection.
And then once you have
hold of a few plot threads,
calmly start writing
down what you remember.
As you do, be present
with the process.
Don't rush through
it on autopilot.
Really marinate in the memories
as you're writing them down
and keep on the
lookout for patterns.
Hmm.
I'm noticing that I dream
about my old dog a lot,
you might think.
Or hmm, I see I'm regularly
dreaming about flying.
These are clear and
obvious patterns.
Other times, the patterns
might be a little subtler,
a little harder to pick up on.
But eventually, through
careful analysis,
you'll start noticing these two.
Wow.
The color purple appears a lot
in my dreams, you might think.
Or hmm, I'm noticing the
emotion of anxiety reappearing.
As you notice these things--
big and small alike, drop them
down in the back of your dream
journal.
And eventually, you'll have a
long list of recurring themes.
Think of this list as
lucid dreaming gold dust
as it'll help you achieve more
lucid dreams in the future.
But we're not done yet.
The list needs refining.
So let's look over it.
You'll notice a whole host
of different patterns here.
Some will be no
more unbelievable.
You might dream about your
mom a lot, for example.
And whilst these
things can still
be useful for
psychological analyzation,
they don't quite make
the cut for dream signs.
The dream sign has to
reach a certain threshold
to be labeled as such.
Not only does it need to
be a recurring pattern,
but it also needs to
be unusual in some way.
Something that wouldn't happen
in waking life in other words.
So anything super
abstract is a dream sign.
You might regularly
dream of turning people
into inanimate
objects, for example.
Anything unbelievable or
impossible is a dream sign too.
You might dream of flying
a lot, for example.
Other things aren't
quite so overtly bizarre,
but they're still
not things that
would happen in waking life.
You might routinely dream of
being in and out of control car
for example.
Everything that falls under this
abstract or unlikely category
can be set aside and
titled as Dream Signs.
Write them all down on
a physical bit of paper
and leave that bit of
paper by your bedside.
Now, each morning, after
writing down your dreams,
and each evening
just before bed,
I want you to read
through this list.
As always, read
through it mindfully.
Don't rush through
it or get distracted
whilst you're doing it.
Read through it slowly
and methodically.
And remind yourself,
the next time
I experience one
of these things,
I'll remember I'm dreaming.
By doing this, you're training
your prospective memory.
However, even some of
the more normal patterns
can be used as
springboards into lucidity.
For example, if you dream
about your mom a lot
and you also see her
in waking life a lot,
you could get into
the habit of reality
checking every time you see her.
And eventually,
these reality checks
will start showing up
in the dream world too.
Bu we're getting ahead
of ourselves here.
Let's circle back around
to reality checking
in a future module.
For now, let's just
concentrate on our list
of strange or
unusual dream signs.
Now that you have
it, treasure it.
And add to it regularly,
because dream signs rarely
remain static for long.
As you grow and
have new experiences
and meet new people,
your dream signs
will change and evolve with you.
Some will stick around, sure,
but others will disappear
and new ones will
emerge in their place.
Either way, you have
to stay on top of this.
Continue logging your dreams,
continue reading them back,
and continue evaluating
your constantly shifting
landscape of dream signs.
You'll also be able
to use this list
for some psychological
analyzation.
For example, if you
keep on dreaming
you're in a romantic
relationship with your father,
that's probably worth a look.
Or if you keep on dreaming
you're in a plane crash,
that's probably worth
a breakdown too.
Don't get me wrong.
I'm not saying that every
last element of the dream
is ripe with meaning, I
believe the brain spits things
out fairly randomly at times.
But if something keeps on
turning up again and again,
there's probably
a reason for it.
Is the brain trying to
pass on a message to you?
Well, no, I wouldn't
necessarily frame it like that.
The process is a little subtler.
Think of it like this instead.
The brain is naturally
primed to focus on things
it deems relevant
and as it gathers
data throughout the
day and then sorts
through that data at
night, by its very nature,
it will highlight things
that seem important to it.
This is where the
so-called messages lie.
Not in the literal passing
down of some esoteric wisdom
from your subconscious
to conscious mind
but in the mere highlighting
of important themes.
Come morning, you can then
look at these recurring themes
and say, why is my
brain fixated on this?
Why is my brain replaying this
same movie over and over again?
To get to the bottom
of these questions,
you're going to have to
do some soul searching.
I can't spoon feed
you these answers,
because everyone has a totally
different history and a totally
different brain chemistry.
So each interpretation
is inherently
unique to the dreamer.
However, I can point you
in the right direction.
[MUSIC PLAYING]